." +AMDG
." Process with:
." groff -man -Tascii dec.1
.TH dec 1 "January 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
dec \- convert dozenal numbers to decimal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dec [-e] [-k 
.I precision
.B ] [
.I "dozenal number"
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dec
converts an arbitrary dozenal number, integral or
fractional, into decimal.  Accepts numbers in either
standard or exponential notation.

If exponential notation is used in the input, it should
consist of the mantissa, a lowercase 'e', and the exponent.
A '-' sign for negative signs is, of course, necessary; 
no '+' sign for positive exponents should be input.

Use a ';' for the zenimal point (that is, the point
separating the integral from the fractional part).  Note
that most shells will interpret this as ending the command;
consequently, if the number to be converted is input at the
command line, one must put the number in quotation marks:
"4;5".

Optionally takes its input as the final argument on the
command line, or can take its input from standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -e
Write the output in exponential notation.
.IP "-k precision"
Print the resulting output with 
.I precision
digits of precision.  By default, the output is printed with
four digits after the zenimal point.  If there is no
fractional part, no zenimal point or fractional digits will
be printed, even if this option is specified.  If the
precision is too high, a message will be printed noting
this, and the precision will be reduced to the system's
maximum.
.IP "dozenal number"
If present, must be the final argument at the command line.
Converts the given number into decimal.  As noted above, if
this contains a zenimal point (';'), the whole number must
be in quotation marks:  "4;5", not simply 4;5.  Otherwise
the shell will probably interpret the semicolon as the end
of the command; in the example above, this will mean that
"4" will be converted, and the shell will then complain that
"5" is not a valid command.
.SH BUGS
With very large numbers, fractional parts will get
truncated.  This is because the computer is only capable of
representing numbers up to a given number of significant
digits.  This isn't a bug, per se, but the program issues no
warning for it, which probably is.
.SH AUTHOR
Donald P. Goodman III <dgoodmaniii at gmail dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR doz (1),
.BR dozdc (1),
.BR tgmconv (1),
.BR dozdate (1),
.BR dozcal (1),
.BR dozword (1),
.BR doman (1),
.BR dozstring (1),
.BR dozpret (1)
