." +AMDG
." Process with:
." groff -man -Tascii doz.1
.TH doz 1 "January 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
doz \- convert decimal numbers to dozenal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B doz [-e] [-k 
.I precision
.B ] [
.I decimal number
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B doz
converts an arbitrary decimal number, integral or
fractional, into dozenal.  Accepts numbers in either
standard or exponential notation.  Optionally takes its
input as the final argument on the command line, or can take
its input from standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -e
Write the output in exponential notation.
.IP "-k precision"
Print the resulting output with 
.I precision
digits of precision.  By default, the output is printed with
four digits after the zenimal point.  If there is no
fractional part, no zenimal point or fractional digits will
be printed, even if this option is specified.  If the
precision is too high, a message will be printed noting
this, and the precision will be reduced to the system's
maximum.
.IP "dozenal number"
If present, must be the final argument at the command line.
Converts the given number into decimal.
.SH BUGS
With very large numbers, fractional parts will get
truncated.  This is because the computer is only capable of
representing numbers up to a given number of significant
digits.  This isn't a bug, per se, but the program issues no
warning for it, which probably is.
.SH AUTHOR
Donald P. Goodman III <dgoodmaniii at gmail dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR doz (1),
.BR dozdc (1),
.BR tgmconv (1),
.BR dozdate (1),
.BR dozcal (1),
.BR dozword (1),
.BR doman (1),
.BR dozstring (1),
.BR dozpret (1)
