." +AMDG
." Process with:
." groff -man -Tascii dozdate.1
.TH dozdate 1 "October 2011" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
dozdate \- produce the dozenal date and time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dozdate [OPTION] [FORMAT]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dozdate
Display the current date and time in dozenal format, time
available in either standard sexagesimal time or TGM format;
or optionally a (more or less) arbitrary other date.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -d date_string
Rather than displaying current date and time, display the
date and time specified in the required argument.  This
string is quite flexibly formatted, and is described in more
detail later in this manual.
.IP -f filename
Like -d once for each line of filename.
.IP -R
Display the date and time in RFC-2822 format.  E.g.:  "Mon, 07
Aug 11E2 10:2X:48 -0600"
.IP -c
Display the date and time in RFC-3339 format.  E.g.:
"111E2-08-07 10:2X:48-0600"
.IP -u
Display the date and time in UTC/GMT (Coordinated Universal
Time or Greenwich Mean Time); in other words, without time
zone or daylight savings time concerns.
.IP -S
The date to be input will be in the Symmetry676 (in decimal,
Symmetry010) calendar.
.IP -s
The date should be output in the Symmetry676 (in decimal,
Symmetry010) calendar.
.IP -Y
Both the input date and output date should be Symmetry676;
equivalent to "-sS" (or, of course, "-Ss").  
.IP -v
Print version and copyright information, then quit.
.SH FORMAT
.B FORMAT 
controls the output; that is, inputting these sequences
(probably should enclose them in double quotes, just to be
sure) will produce the resulting figures.
.B Percent format sequences 
(beginning with a "%" and followed by a letter) produce
normal date and time numbers; 
.B at-sign format sequences
(beginning with an "@" and followed by a letter) produce
TGM-specific date and time numbers.  All numbers produced by
dozdate are dozenal, and all numbers fed to it are assumed
to be dozenal.

Interpreted sequences are:
.SH PERCENT SEQUENCES:
.TP
%%
a literal %
.TP
%a
locale's abbreviated weekday name (e.g., Sun)
.TP
%A
locale's full weekday name (e.g., Sunday)
.TP
%b
locale's abbreviated month name (e.g., Jan)
.TP
%B
locale's full month name (e.g., January)
.TP
%c
locale's date and time (e.g., Thu Mar  3 23:05:25 2005)
.TP
%C
century; like %Y, except omit last two digits (e.g., 20)
.TP
%d
day of month (e.g, 01)
.TP
%D
date; same as %m/%d/%y
.TP
%e
day of month, space padded; same as %_d
.TP
%F
full date; same as %Y\-%m\-%d
.TP
%g
last two digits of year of ISO week number (see %G)
.TP
%G
year of ISO week number (see %V); normally useful only with %V
.TP
%h
same as %b
.TP
%H
hour (00..23)
.TP
%I
hour (01..12)
.TP
%j
day of year (001..366)
.TP
%k
hour ( 0..23)
.TP
%l
hour ( 1..12)
.TP
%m
month (01..12)
.TP
%M
minute (00..59)
.TP
%n
a newline
.TP
%N
nanoseconds (000000000..999999999)
.TP
%p
locale's equivalent of either AM or PM; blank if not known
.TP
%P
like %p, but lower case
.TP
%r
locale's 12\-hour clock time (e.g., 11:11:04 PM)
.TP
%R
24\-hour hour and minute; same as %H:%M
.TP
%s
seconds since 1970\-01\-01 00:00:00 UTC
.TP
%S
second (00..60)
.TP
%t
a tab
.TP
%T
time; same as %H:%M:%S
.TP
%u
day of week (1..7); 1 is Monday
.TP
%U
week number of year, with Sunday as first day of week (00..53)
.TP
%V
ISO week number, with Monday as first day of week (01..53)
.TP
%w
day of week (0..6); 0 is Sunday
.TP
%W
week number of year, with Monday as first day of week (00..53)
.TP
%x
locale's date representation (e.g., 12/31/99)
.TP
%X
locale's time representation (e.g., 23:13:48)
.TP
%y
last two digits of year (00..99)
.TP
%Y
year
.TP
%z
+hhmm numeric timezone (e.g., \fB\-0400\fR)
.TP
%:z
+hh:mm numeric timezone (e.g., \fB\-04\fR:00)
.TP
%::z
+hh:mm:ss numeric time zone (e.g., \fB\-04\fR:00:00)
.TP
%:::z
numeric time zone with : to necessary precision (e.g., \fB\-04\fR, +05:30)
.TP
%Z
alphabetic time zone abbreviation (e.g., EDT)
.SH DOZENAL SEQUENCES:
.TP
@c
Produces a reasonably complete depiction of the date and
time; that is, weekday day month year time.  E.g., "Thu 18
Oct 11E7 0E;3300".
.TP
@C
Produces the first two digits of the dozenal year without
the last two; in other words, the zentury.  So, e.g., for
this year (11E7/2011), it produces "11".  Similar to %c,
except for the dozenal year.
.TP
@y
Produces the last two digits of the dozenal year without the
first two; so, for this year (11E7/2011), it produces "E7".
.TP
@t
Produces the number of Tims since the last hour
(0000-10000).  (Range is normally only through EEEE, but the
extra is to allow for occasional leap seconds.)
.TP
@m
Number of quaduaTims, to two places; essentially @t
truncated to two digits.
.TP
@H
Number of hours since midnight; 00-1E.
.TP
@k
Same as @H, but without padding; 0-1E.
.TP
@T
"Long time"; @H;@t.  Hours, semicolon, Tims to four digits.
.TP
@s
"Short time"; @H;@m.  Hours, semicolon, Tims to two digits.
.SH FORMAT SPECIFIERS
Any of the "@" format specifiers may be further specified in
terms of padding.  After the "%" or "@" but before the
letter comes the optional field width; e.g., "@5H" will give
the hour, in dozenal, in a field five characters wide, three
zeroes and the hour.  Prior to the field width can come an
optional character which will be used for padding instead of
zeroes.  E.g., "@5^H" will pad the field with "^" rather
than zeroes.
.PP
Note that this differs from GNU date, which uses "^" and "#"
to specify change of case; dozdate instead interprets these
as padding characters.
.PP
By default, dozdate pads with zeroes, but any non-letter and
non-number character can be used.  In GNU date, an
underscore ("_") pads with blanks, but dozdate doesn't do
this in case the user actually wants to pad with
underscores; instead, an open square bracket ("[") pads with
blanks.  It seemed very unlikely that anyone would want to
pad fields with this character.
.PP
Any number, no matter how absurd, can be used as a
padding figure.  (Not quite true; it has to fit within a C
"int" variable.)  These numbers are dozenal, of course.
.PP
The "@" format sequences are extremely flexible with their
padding in this way; the "%" format sequences instead work
precisely as they do in GNU date.  The only options are "-"
(to suppress padding); "_" (to pad with blanks); "0" (to pad
with zeroes); "^" (to use uppercase if possible); and "#"
(to use the opposite case if possible).  This is for
compatibility purposes; I'd like dozdate to be as near a
drop-in replacement for GNU date as possible.  But that's no
reason to handicap the dozdate extensions.
.PP
Examples:
.RS
"@5y" --- "000E7"
.RE
.RS
"@[5y" --- "   E7"
.RE
.RS
"@#5y" --- "###E7"
.RE
And so forth.

.SH DATE STRINGS
dozdate will accept some fairly flexible strings as dates to
be formatted (fed to it by the -d option or as lines in a
file).  Still, it's not a natural language interpreter, and
it does only understand a limited number of formats.
.PP
RELATIVE DATES
.PP
Relatives dates specify the dates relative to the current
one.  Currently, dozdate only accepts relative dates based
on the weekday.  It accepts three such types of dates in any
of four formats:

.RS
.I last 
WEEKDAY (e.g., "last Friday")
.RE
.RS
WEEKDAY (e.g., "Friday")
.RE
.RS
.I this 
WEEKDAY (e.g., "this Friday")
.RE
.RS
.I next 
WEEKDAY (e.g., "next Friday")
.RE

Using the keyword "this" plus the weekday is equivalent to
using the weekday by itself.  The keyword "last" yields the
given weekday immediately prior to the current date; "this"
or no keyword yields the weekday immediately after the
current date; "next" yields the weekday immediately after
the current date 
.I "plus seven,"
accordingly to colloquial usage.  Note that this differs
from the behavior of GNU date, which considers "this" and
"next" synonymous.

Weekdays can be entered in their full form, or in an
abbreviated form; any abbreviation that includes the first
three letters of the weekday name will be understood.  (That
is, "Thursday" "Thursda", "Thursd", "Thurs", "Thur", and
"Thu" are all synonymous.)  They do, however, need to begin
with a capital letter and be followed by lowercase letters.

.PP
ABSOLUTE DATES
.PP
dozdate will also accept a variety of formats for absolute
dates, more or less as those accepted by GNU date.  However,
unlike GNU date, dozdate insists that years be given in four
digits, and it also accepts dozenal numbers rather than
decimal ones, for obvious reasons.
.PP
Any of the following formats for inputting dates will be
accepted and correctly understood by dozdate:
.PP
.RS
11X8-2-25
.RE
.RS
25 February 11X8
.RE
.RS
25February11X8
.RE
.RS
25 Feb 11X8
.RE
.RS
25Feb11X8
.RE
.RS
February 25, 11X8
.RE
.RS
Feb 25, 11X8
.RE
.RS
2/25/11X8
.RE
.PP
Leading zeroes in these numbers are ignored; indeed, leading 
.I anything
in these numbers are ignored.  If you input "225 Feb 11X8",
dozdate will simply devour what it can and ignore the rest,
assuming that you meant "25 Feb 11X8."  Note that this
behavior can be unpredictable; if you use the common
American "slash format," "2/225/11X8", dozdate parses the
numbers from the other direction, so you'll get 22 Feb 11X8
instead.  Due to this unpredictability, it's not really safe
to rely on this behavior except for leading zeroes up to the
normal number of digits (e.g., "02/02/11X8").
.PP
Months may be abbreviated as desired, provided that the
abbreviations contain at least the first three letters of
the month.  This allows dozdate to accept non-standard
abbreviations like "Sept" for "September".  They do,
however, need to begin with a capital letter and be followed
by lowercase letters.
.PP
Incomplete dates can be accepted, as well.  If the year is
omitted, dozdate will assume the current year.  If the date
is omitted but the month is given, dozdate will assume the
first day of the month.  If the month and date is omitted
but the year is given, dozdate will assume the first day of
January.
.PP
This reasonably graceful system breaks down on the
characteristically American "slash format."  E.g., entering
"2/11X8" will cause dozdate to interpret the "11" as the
date, and it will emit "11 Feb 11X8", probably not what was
intended.  This is because the American style of date
formatting really doesn't make sense; it's neither
little-endian nor big-endian, going neither from smallest
unit to largest nor vice-versa.  However, the other numeric
formats do the right thing here; "11X8-2" will correctly be
interpreted as "1 Feb 11X8".
.PP
If you ask dozdate for a particular date, but give it the
wrong weekday, dozdate will silently correct this and output
the correct weekday.
.PP
TIMES
.PP
dozdate understands times in either our accustomed mongrel
decimal/dozenal/sexagesimal system (that is, hours, minutes,
and seconds) or in the coherent and rationally dozenal TGM
format (hours and Tims).
.PP
TGM times are formatted as HH;TTTT.  There are, of course,
10000 Tims in an hour, so this format makes sense.  dozdate
also understands a "short time," similar to our common
practice of reading the time in hours and minutes while
omitting seconds, involving only the first two digits of the
number of Tims:  HH;TT.  A semicolon must be used, or
dozdate will think the user intends sexagesimal time and
interpret it accordingly.  Giving a number of Tims greater
than EEEE will cause dozdate to simply truncate the trailing
digits and use the result figure.
.PP
Omitting the number of Tims (e.g., "2;") will cause dozdate
to assume a number of Tims the first digit of which is
idential to the hour.  So the above example will yield
"2;1EEE" (or "2;2000", depending on how your machine rounds
it).
.PP
Sexagesimal times are formatted as usual:  HH:MM:SS.
Seconds can be omitted without consequence; dozdate will
simply assume "00".  Minutes can be omitted, but dozdate
will assume the current number of minutes.  If minutes are
going to be omitted, one must still use the colon; e.g.,
"3:".  Otherwise, dozdate won't know what the number is
doing and will simply ignore it.
.PP
If the time is omitted entirely, dozdate will assume
midnight ("00;0000", or "00:00:00").

.SH ERRORS AND RETURN CODES
.IP 0
Successful return, no errors detected.
.IP 1
The date string requires there to be more dates in the month
than there really are.  E.g., it requires there to be a
March 32.
.IP 2
Requested 29 February, or a date in Irvember if using the
Symm676 calendar, but this isn't a leap year.
.IP 3
Bad month; the month you've requested doesn't exist.  E.g.,
"15".
.IP 4
Bad conversion code, either "%" or "@"; dozdate doesn't
recognize what you're asking it to do.
.IP 5
Insufficient memory to process the format string you've
requested.  It's exceedingly unlikely that you'll ever run
into this.
.IP 6
Bad file; dozdate can't open the file that you've asked it
to process.
.IP 7
Bad hour; the hour you've asked for isn't a sensible value.
E.g., it's not 00-1E (in decimal, 00-23).
.IP 8
Bad minute; the minute you've asked for isn't a sensible
value.  E.g., it's not 00-4E (in decimal, 00-59).
.IP 9
Bad second; the second you've asked for isn't a sensible
value.  E.g., it's not 00-50 (in decimal, 00-60).  Note that
this allows for an extra second to permit leap seconds to be
handled properly, but it does not checking as to whether a
leap second actually fell during that hour.
.IP 10
Bad year; the year you've requested is either too large or
too small.  Note the dozdate works with the Gregorian
calendar, and its tables only go back to 0E98 (decimal
1700) and forward to 168E (decimal 2699).  So anything
outside of that range will error because dozdate can't
figure out the day of the week with its current tables.
.SH BUGS
None known at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
Donald P. Goodman III <dgoodmaniii at gmail dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR doz (1),
.BR dozdc (1),
.BR tgmconv (1),
.BR dozdate (1),
.BR dozcal (1),
.BR dozword (1),
.BR doman (1),
.BR dozstring (1),
.BR dozpret (1)
