." +AMDG
." Process with:
." groff -man -Tascii dozdc.1
.TH dozdc 1 "July 2015" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
dozdc \- arbitrary precision dozenal calculator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dozdc [-Vezdr] [-k 
.I precision
.B ] [
.I equation
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dozdc
An arbitrary-precision Reverse Polish Notation (RPN, postfix
notation) calculator which works in dozenal (base-12).  All
normal arithmetic functions, plus trigonometry, some basic
constants (pi, euler, phi), logarithms, and other functions.
Supports variables of arbitrary user-defined names.

There is also a graphical version, gdozdc, written in
Perl/Tk.  Obviously, this requires a working version of Perl
and the Tk libraries.  gdozdc is pretty self-explanatory;
its differences are described below.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-V
Print version and licensing information and quit successfully.
.IP \-v
Run the visual version of the calculator.  Works in infix
notation and can be operated by keyboard, mouse, or a
combination.  See the section below.
.IP -z
Indicates that those functions which take angles as
arguments (trigonometric functions in particular) will take
them in zeniPis, the TGM unit.  This is the default.
.IP -r
Indicates that those functions which take angles as
arguments (trigonometric functions in particular) will take
them in radians.
.IP -d
Indicates that those functions which take angles as
arguments (trigonometric functions in particular) will take
them in degrees.
.IP -e
Write the output in exponential notation.
.IP "-k precision"
Print the resulting output with 
.I precision
digits of precision.  By default, the output is printed with
four digits after the zenimal point.  If there is no
fractional part, no zenimal point or fractional digits will
be printed, even if this option is specified.  If the
precision is too high, a message will be printed noting
this, and the precision will be reduced to the system's
maximum.
.IP "equation"
If present, must be the final argument at the command line.
Processes the equation, prints the answer, and exits.  Must
be entered within quotation marks so that it's considered a
single argument by the program.
.SH EQUATION SYNTAX
The syntax of an equation is fairly standard Reverse Polish
Notation (also called postfix notation or simply RPN).
Each operator has either two arguments (these are called
"binary" operators) or one (these are called "unary"
operators).  Operators (like "+" or "cos") come 
.I after
their arguments (that is, the numbers or variables they work
on).  So, for example, rather than writing "1 + 1", one
writes "1 1 +"; rather than writing cos(30), one writes "30
cos".  This has the benefit of being unambiguous (no
parentheses are necessary).
.SH OPERATORS
.IP =
Pops and prints the top of the stack; in other words, gives
you your answer.  The operations you request will be done
after hitting "enter"; however, no answer will be printed
unless you put in an "=" and hit that.  This allows long
calculations to be split between lines without having
intermediate results, which may not be interesting, printed
unless you want them to be.
.IP "+, -, *, /"
The basic arithmetic operators; they are all binary.  They
work precisely as one would expect them to.  "-" and "/"
must have their arguments in the right order; however, this
is the same as the order one would expect.  "x - y" is "x y
-"; "x / y" is "x y /".  So this shouldn't trip anyone up.
Of course, one cannot divide by zero; trying will emit an
error message, and the numbers will be pushed back onto the
stack, as they were before the attempt.
.IP %
The modulus operator, or "mod".  Internally this is fmod();
as such, it works on floating-point numbers as well as
integers.  Like "/", one cannot divide by zero; trying will
emit an error message, and the numbers will be pushed back
onto the stack, as they were before the attempt.
.IP k
Precision; this is a unary operator.  As such, its argument
comes prior to it.  It pops the last number and makes that
value the new precision.  Obviously, fractional precisions
are meaningless, and will be truncated to a whole number.
Enter like so:  "8 k" will ask that answers be printed to
eight zenimal places.  If the value is too large, then, as
with the command-line option, it will simply be reduced to
the largest possible on your machine.
.IP "sin, cos, tan"
Trigonometric functions that we're all familiar with.  These
are unary operators, so they take the number entered
immediately before them as their argument.  By default, they
operate on zeniPis; this can be changed.  See the command
"rad" and the command-line option "r", as well as "d" and
the command-line option "d".
.IP "asin, acos, atan"
Inverse trigonometric functions.  Unary; used like the
normal trigonometric functions.  Naturally, these must be in
the range of -1 to 1 (except for atan, which can take any
real number); if they are fed a different value, they
politely cough it back onto the stack and let the user know.
They emit values in radians or degrees, depending on the
current angle setting.
.IP "sinh, cosh, tanh"
Hyperbolic trigonometric functions.  Unary; used like the
normal and inverse ones.
.IP z
Makes those functions which work on angles use zeniPis
rather than degrees or radians.  This is the default.  See
the command-line option "z".
.IP d
Makes those functions which work on angles use degrees
rather than zeniPis or radians.  See the command-line option
"d".
.IP rad
Makes those functions which work on angles use radians
rather than zeniPis or degrees.  See the command-line option
"r".
.IP ^
A binary operator; it raises its first argument to the power
of its second argument.  So "2 3 ^" has a result of 8; it
means "2 raised to the power of 3".  This can also be used
to fake roots greater than two; "8 1 3 / ^" raises 8 to the
power of 1/3, which gives the cube root of 8.
.IP v
A unary operator; it takes the square root of its single
argument.  So "41 v" will yield 7.  Of course, one cannot
take the square root of a negative number; trying will emit
an error message, and the attempted argument will be pushed
back onto the stack unchanged.
.IP log
A unary operator; gives the dozenal logarithm of its single
argument.
.IP logx
A unary operator; gives the base-ten logarithm of its single
argument.  It's worth noting that this computes the base-ten
logarithm of a
.I dozenal
number and emits it as a 
.I dozenal
result.  This fact has tripped up the author of the program
a few times when it didn't match up to a base-ten logarithm
from another calculator.  Trust the result; make sure you're
entering the same number and converting the result to
decimal.  It's correct.
.IP ln
A unary operator; gives the natural logarithm (the base is
the euler number) of its single argument.
.IP dlg
Pendlebury's dublogs; these are logarithms with a base of
two.  dozdc can handle only 
.I straight
dublogs, not the 
.I mixed
dublogs, which are useful for some applications but much
harder to handle automatically.
.IP logb
A binary operator; permits computation of logs in an
arbitrary base.  Its first argument is the number the log of
which is sought; its second is the base of that log.  So,
for example, "45 log" is equivalent to "45 10 logb"; "45
logx" is equivalent to "45 X logb"; and "45 ln" is
equivalent to "45 eul logb".
.IP !
A unary operator; takes the factorial of its single
argument.  "5 !" yield "X0".  If a non-integer is given, it
will simply truncate thre fractional part and calculate the
factorial of the integer value.
.IP exp
A unary operator; gives the euler number raised to the power
of its single argument.  So "2 exp" is equivalent to "eul 2
^".
.IP ldexp
A binary operator; it raises 2 to the power of its second
argument, then multiplies it by its first.  So, for example,
"10 2 ldexp" will result in 40; 2^2 is 4, 10 * 4 is 40.
.IP abs
A unary operator; gives the absolute value of its single
argument.  (That is, it's positive, it leaves it as is; if
it's negative, it makes it positive.)
.IP recip
A unary operator; gives the reciprocal of its single
argument (that is, one divided by that argument).
.IP gcf
A binary operator; gives the "greatest common factor" of its
two arguments.
.IP lcm
A binary operator; gives the "least common multiple" of its
two arguments.
.SH CONSTANTS
dozdc provides a number of constants.  These are the classic
"transcendental" numbers, or at least a few of them.  Of
course, they are emitted in dozenal.  The "=" syntax is
helpful here; to learn the dozenal value of pi, for example,
one need simply tell dozdc "pi =", and pi, the value at the
top of the stack, will be printed.
.IP pi
Takes no arguments; simply contains the value of pi.
.IP eul
Takes no arguments; simply contains the value of the euler
constant.
.IP phi
Takes no arguments; simply contains the value of phi, the
"Golden Ratio."
.SH VARIABLES
dozdc has basic variable handling; it is basic, but it's
powerful enough for many uses.  The program allows for up to
fifty separate variables, each of which can be arbitrarily
named.  These names can be up to thirty characters long;
longer and they will be silently truncated by the program.
The names must begin with a dollar sign ('$'), after the
manner of Perl or bash.

The first time a variable name appears, the last value on
the stack is popped off the stack and assigned to it; ever
after, when the variable name appears it pushes that value
back onto the stack.  The variable cannot be assigned a new
value.

So, for example, a typical usage scenario might be such:

.B "1 3 / $result ($result == 1/3, or 0;4)"

.B "8 $result ^ = (prints 8 ^ 0;4, the cube root of 8,
which is 2)"

They really are that simple.
.SH COMMENTS
Comments are available, and are useful in particularly long
or complex files that will be handed to dozdc for
computation.  Because dozdc works by words, not by lines,
comments are word-based.  Fortunately, the words can be as
long as one wants.  It's important, however, to make sure
that the comments contain no spaces, tabs, or newlines, or
dozdc will misinterpret the text after the first one such as
a command or number it needs to deal with.

Comments are all proceeded with the '#' character, and
include all characters following it in the same word.  So,
in our above variable example, we might do the following:

.B "1 3 / $result

.B #_gives_us_exponent_for_cube_roots

.B "8 $result ^ = 

This will accomplish the same thing, but make it clear what
"$result" is doing explicitly.  (Of course, one could just
name the variable "$cuberoot" or something similar, but
we're doing examples here.)

One should be aware that blank lines in the input files will
mess up the results, because of the way dozdc deals with
words.  However, inserting a comment (a line consisting
solely of '#') rather than a blank line will preserve a
correct result while still allowing the helpful whitespace.
.SH OTHER COMMANDS
.IP quit
Quits the program.  'Nuff said.
.SH GRAPHICAL VERSION, gdozdc
gdozdc is the graphical version of dozdc, and it differs in
some significant points.  Specifically, it's 
.I infix,
not postfix; that means that you enter your equations in
the same way you learned to write them down in school, with
your binary operators (the ones that take two arguments,
like the basic arithmetic functions) in between their two
arguments.  E.g., you write "4 + 5", rather than dozdc's "4
5 +".

This system is not particularly extensible; that is, it only
works with binary operators, and it's inherently ambiguous.
gdozdc therefore offers the usual infix disambiguation
operators, parentheses, which can be used to group
operations however might be necessary.  This applies to
*all* binary operators, even ones where this behavior might
be surprising; e.g., for arbitrary base logarithms, one
inputs the base, "logb", then the number; so for the
logarithm of three to base two, one writes "2 logb 3".

Non-binary operations work as they do in dozdc; that is,
they are postfix.  This is typical even for modern infix
calculators.  For example, one writes "5 !" for factorial
five, and "0;6 sin" for the sine of 0;6.

gdozdc also implements some memory functions.  "CM" means to
clear memory; "M" means to save the current field to memory
(this is the whole field, not the result of the operations
contained in it); "M+" means to replace the current field
with the contents of the memory; and "M++" means to append
the contents of the memory to the current field.

Hovering over a button will give the keyboard shortcut in a
small popup balloon, as well as list it and a brief
explanation in the lower bar.
.SH BUGS
None known at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
Donald P. Goodman III <dgoodmaniii at gmail dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dec (1),
.BR dozdc (1),
.BR tgmconv (1),
.BR dozdate (1),
.BR dozcal (1),
.BR dozword (1),
.BR dozpret (1)
.BR dozstring (1)
