." +AMDG
." Process with:
." groff -man -Tascii dozpret.1
.TH dozpret 1 "October 2011" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
dozpret \- pretty-printing dozenal numbers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dozpret [-lh] [-n
.I number of digits between spaces
.B ] [-s
.I spacing character(s)
.B ] [-p
.I radix point character(s)
] [
.I number
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dozpret
A dozenal number pretty-printer with sensible, reasonably
international defaults, allowing customization including
number of units, characters used to spaced between units,
and characters used for the radix point ("." in decimal), as
well as options for new transdecimal digits.  It also
provides some quick options for some common applications;
e.g., formatting numbers for use in LaTeX documents.
Assumes 'X' and 'E' as transdecimal digits and a Humphrey
point (';') for a radix point in its input.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -s
Indicates the character(s) used to space between units.  In
common American usage, this is the comma (","), like so:
186,700.  Takes the character(s) desired as an argument,
with or without a space; if multiple characters, put them in
double quotation marks.  Defaults to a space.
.IP -n
Indicates the number of digits per spacing unit.  Takes the
integer desired as an argument, with or without a space.  Any
integer will do; negative integers will throw an error.
Arbitrary size.  Defaults to 4.
.IP -p
Indicates the character(s) desired as a radix point.  In
decimal, this is usually the period ("."), such that it's
usually called the "decimal point".  Dozenalists most
commonly use the "Humphrey point," the semicolon (";"), and
this is the default.  Hammond points ("'") are also common.
Takes the character(s) desired as an argument, with or
without a space; if multiple charcters, put them in double
quotation marks.  Defaults to a Humphrey point (";").
.IP -t
Indicates the character(s) desired to represent digit-ten;
assumes 'X' as the input.  Takes as an argument the
character(s) desired; if multiple characters, put them in
double quotation marks.  (As always, this is not strictly
necessary for most characters in most shells; but it does
avoid some annoying errors when one of the characters is
something like ';' or '\\'.)  Defaults to 'X'.
.IP -e
Indicates the character(s) desired to represent
digit-eleven; assumes 'E' as the input.  Takes as an
argument the character(s) desired; if multiple characters,
put them in double quotation marks.  Defaults to 'E'.
.IP -l
Format the number for LaTeX, or the way that I personally
like my numbers formatted for LaTeX.  This translates to a
Humphrey point and a small space between units of four;
equivalent to "-s "\\," -t"\\x" -e"\\e"".
.IP -a
Format the number according to normal American (decimal)
conventions.  This translates to a Humphrey point, with
units of three digits separated by commas.  Translates to
"-n3 -s,".
.IP -b
Format the number according to standard British dozenal
practice (insofar as there is such a standard).  This
translates to a Hammond point and a 'T' for digit-ten; it is
equivalent to "-p"'" -tT".
.IP -h
Format according to the Hammond standard; this is simply the
use of a single quotation mark for the radix point, and
translates to "-p"'"".
.IP -x
Cancels the spacing entirely, but still does substitution
for the transdecimal digits.  This allows it to use the
output of programs like dozdate in its input without
screwing up their formatting.
.IP -v
Print version and copyright information, then quit.
.SH ERRORS
.IP 1
If the program returns "1", this means that there's
insufficient memory to process the string it's been given.
.SH BUGS
None known at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
Donald P. Goodman III <dgoodmaniii at gmail dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR doz (1),
.BR dozdc (1),
.BR tgmconv (1),
.BR dozdate (1),
.BR dozcal (1),
.BR dozword (1),
.BR doman (1),
.BR dozstring (1),
.BR dozpret (1)
