." +AMDG
." Process with:
." groff -man -Tascii tgmconv.1
.TH tgmconv 1 "January 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
tgmconv \- converter for measurements in the TGM, metric,
imperial, and customary systems.  Inputs and outputs only in
dozenal.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tgmconv -e [-k
.I precision
.B ] [-i 
.I input unit
.B ] [-o
.I output unit
.B ]
.B quantity
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tgmconv
Converts the given quantity from the input unit to the
output unit.  At present, both input and output units must
be given manually at the command line.  Works with simple
units (like "Grafut" and "second") and compound units of
arbitrary complexity (like "S*m/m2").
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-k precision"
Print the resulting output with 
.I precision
digits of precision.  By default, the output is printed with
four digits after the zenimal point.  If there is no
fractional part, no zenimal point or fractional digits will
be printed, even if this option is specified.  If the
precision is too high, a message will be printed noting
this, and the precision will be reduced to the system's
maximum.  If you give it a negative number, you will confuse
it mightily, and it will resolve the confusion by dropping
into standard input and waiting for you to give it something
sensible.
.IP "-i input unit"
Specifies what unit tgmconv will be receiving the quantity
in.  This argument is optional 
.I if
you provide the input unit with the quantity itself, for
which see the section on the quantity argument below.
.IP "-o output unit"
Specifies the unit that tgmconv should convert the entered
quantity of the input unit into.  Strictly necessary if the
output unit is not TGM; not strictly necessary if it is TGM,
unless you want the unit multiplied or divided by an
exponent.
.IP "quantity"
Must be the final argument on the command line.  This is the
number of input units that will be converted to output
units.  Must be a dozenal number; tgmconv will interpret it
as such regardless of the user's actual intent.

Optionally, the input unit may be specified with the input
quantity, if the 
.I -i
option is not being used.  (If the 
.I -i
option 
.I is
used, then tgmconv will assume that your unit is supposed to
be part of your number, and most probably throw an error
unless your unit and separator consist entirely of dozenal
characters.)  To do this, simply enter the quantity as
normal (a valid dozenal number); follow it with some
character which is 
.I not
a dozenal number character (the author has taken to 
using ':', but any character not a dozenal number character 
will do fine); and then enter the unit one wishes to convert.

For example, entering 
.I 3:km/hr
will cause tgmconv to convert 3 kilometers per hour into the
appropriate unit, either TGM's Vlos (by default) or whatever
unit is specified by the
.I -o
option.

It's important to be cautious here, and make sure that the
input 
.I unit
is separated by a non-dozenal character from the input 
.I quantity
that is entered.  For example, if one enters
.I 3km/hr
, one has entered perfectly valid input, and tgmconv will
obediently convert it.  However, it will convert 3 
.I meters
per hour, not kilometers.  When it encounters the 
.I k
, tgmconv will quite reasonably assume that this ends the
quantity portion of the argument, and will begin the unit
portion on the 
.I m
which is finds next.  It is unlikely that this result is
what the user desires.  However, there's little to be done
for it.  Otherwise, there would be no way to tell if, for
example, an 'A' in the input was the start of a unit (for
example, the Ag) or simply the number ten.  Some separating
unit is necessary; the best tgmconv can do is allow the user
to employ whatever separator he wants, provided it can't be
confused for a dozenal character.
.SH UNIT SYNTAX
TGM units have a simple syntax.  They are entered simply as
is.  To multiply by an exponent, begin it with the desired
exponent and a '^':  3^Gf for trinaGrafuts.  To divide it,
use a '_' instead:  3_Gf for triniGrafuts.

Building metric units can be done in the usual way by
combining the canonical metric unit abbreviations (e.g., "m"
for "meter", "g" for "gram") with the prefixes as normal.
However, some of the higher prefixes won't work as written
because they conflict with TGM units when combined with
certain metric units (for example, "megagram," canonically
"Mg," conflicts with the Mag, and "terameter," canonically
"Tm", conflicts with the Tim).  Consequently, some need to
written out differently.

"Exa" must be written out "Ex" (example:  "Exm" for
"exameter"); "peta" must be written out "Pe" (example:
"PeV" for "petavolt"); "tera" must be written out "Te"
(example:  "TeV" for "teravolt"); and "mega" must be written
out "Me" (example:  "Meg" for "megagram").  All the other
prefixes can be affixed as normal.

For metric and imperial units, compound units have a fairly
tight but intuitive syntax.  There is no need to specify
exponents; any digit that's encountered will be treated as a
positive exponent.  When units are being multiplied, a
specific mention of this is necessary; a "*" character is
probably easiest, though as a practical matter any character
other than a dozenal character (0-9, A, B, T, X, E) or a '-'
would work.

As an example, the TGM unit of conductivity is the Eldu.
The metric unit of conductivity is the Siemen-meter per
square meter.  To enter the metric unit, use the appropriate
abbreviations connected with '*' and '/':

.I "S*m/m2"

(Incidentally, "mho", the old term for the Siemen, will also
work here.)  Many metric units are compound where TGM
provides a single unit, so learning this idiom is essential
if tgmconv is to be used at all heavily.  Fortunately, it's
not a complicated matter.

Another down side is that tgmconv is too stupid (or, really,
too smart) to understand non-standard abbreviations.  A
common abbreviation in America for "miles per hour" is
"mph", for example; tgmconv would have no idea what "mph"
was supposed to mean.  To get "miles per hour", one must
enter "mi/hr", which tgmconv will understand exactly.
Similarly, "psi", as the common abbreviation for "pounds per
square inch", would be incomprehensible for tgmconv; but
entering "lbf/in2" will yield the correct answer.
.SH PERMISSIBLE UNITS
Unfortunately, at this point tgmconv's syntax is relatively
fascistic; it insists on receiving its units in a canonical
abbreviated format, in addition to the syntax for composite
units explained above.  Below is a list of the acceptable
units and their abbreviations for TGM, metric, and
customary/imperial, plus a brief statement of each unit's
purpose.
.SH TGM Units
.IP "Tim --- Tm"
The unit of time.
.IP "Grafut --- Gf"
The unit of length.
.IP "Astru --- Au"
Another unit of length.  Equivalent to the astronomical unit
("au" in SI metric); the approximate distance from Earth to
the Sun.
.IP " Gee --- G"
The unit of acceleration.
.IP " Vlos --- Vl"
The unit of velocity.
.IP " Surf --- Sf"
The unit of area.
.IP " Volm --- Vm"
The unit of volume.
.IP " Maz --- Mz"
The unit of mass.
.IP " Atomic Mass Unit --- mMz"
The atomic mass unit, as expressed in TGM units.
.IP " Denz --- Dz"
The unit of density.
.IP " Vlov --- Vv"
The unit of velocity squared.
.IP " Mav --- Mv"
The unit of momentum.
.IP " Mag --- Mg"
The unit of force.
.IP " Tenz --- Tz"
The unit of tension.
.IP " Prem --- Pm"
The generic unit of pressure or stress.
.IP " Atmoz --- Atz"
The TGM standard atmosphere, a unit of pressure.
.IP "Werg --- Wg"
The unit of energy or work.
.IP "Pov --- Pv"
The unit of power.
.IP " Viscod --- Vsd"
The unit of viscosity, equivalent to Newton-seconds per
meter squared (N*s/m2).
.IP " Viskin --- Vsn "
The unit of viscosity, equivalent to meters squared per
second (m2/s).
.IP " Radian --- rad "
The typical and familiar measure of angles.
.IP " Steradian --- Sr"
The familiar unit of solid angles.
.IP " radiVlos --- rVl"
The unit of angular velocity.
.IP " radiGee --- rG"
The unit of angular acceleration.
.IP " radaMav --- RMv"
The unit of angular momentum.
.IP " radaMag --- RMg"
The unit of angular force, or torque.
.IP " quaraMaz --- QMz"
The unit of moment of inertia.
.IP "Freq --- Fq"
The unit of frequency or revolution; equivalent to hertz or
RPM.
.IP " Kur --- Kr"
The unit of current.
.IP " Kurn --- Kn "
The unit of magneto-motive force.
.IP " Pel --- Pl"
The unit of electro-motive force.
.IP " Og --- Og"
The unit of resistance, reactance, and impedance.
.IP " Go --- Go"
The unit of conductance, susceptance, and admittance.
.IP " Quel --- Ql"
The unit of quantity or charge.
.IP " Kap --- Kp "
The unit of capacity.
.IP " Mit --- Mt"
The unit of permittivity.
.IP " Flum --- Fm "
The unit of magnetic flux.
.IP " Flenz --- Fz "
The unit of magnetic flux density.
.IP " Gen --- Gn"
The unit of inductance.
.IP " Lukt --- Lk"
The unit of reluctance.
.IP " Meab --- Mb"
The unit of permeability.
.IP " Penz --- Pz"
The unit of power density, or intensity.
.IP " QuaraPenz --- QPz"
The unit of radiant poewr.
.IP " Lypov --- Lp"
The unit of light power, or luminous flux.
.IP " Lyde --- Ld"
The unit of illumination, luminance, or brightness.
.IP " Senz --- Sz"
The unit of light sensitivity.
.IP " QuaraLyde --- QLd"
The unit of luminous intensity.
.IP " Calg --- Cg"
The unit of heat, comparable to kelvins.  tgmconv will match
these up with Kelvins, as they have the same base (absolute
zero).
.IP " Decigree --- Do"
Another unit of heat, this one comparable to degrees
Celsius.  Based on the freezing point of water, like degrees
Celsius.
.IP " Calkap --- Ck"
The unit of heat capacity.
.IP " Calsp --- Csp "
The unit of specific heat capacity.
.IP " Caldu --- Cdu "
The unit of thermal conductivity.
.IP " Temgra --- Tgr"
The unit of temperature gradiant.
.IP " Wesp --- Wsp"
The unit of specific energy and specific latent heat.
.IP " Flo --- Fl"
The unit of flow.
.IP " Zond --- Zd"
The unit of loudness.
.IP " Vosp --- Vsp"
The unit of specific volume.
.IP " Ag --- Ag"
The unit of activity.
.IP " radaQuel --- RQl"
The unit of electric dipole moment.
.IP " Rezy --- Ry"
The unit of resistivity.
.IP " Eldu --- Edu"
The unit of conductivity.
.IP " Imo --- Im"
The unit of ionic mobility.
.IP " Quenz --- Qz"
The unit of electric flux density.
.IP " Depoz --- Dp"
The unit of electrochemical equivalence.
.IP " Elgra --- Egr"
The unit of potential gradient.
.IP " radaFlum --- RFm"
The unit of magnetic moment.
.IP " Magra --- Mgr"
The unit of magnetic field strength or gradient.
.IP " Lyqua --- Lq"
The unit of light quantity.
.IP " Perfut --- PGf"
The unit of wave number and lens power.
.IP " Lytef --- Lf"
The unit of light efficiency.
.IP " Orosp --- Osp"
The unit of specific optical rotation.
.IP " Molz --- Mlz"
The unit of amount of substance, equivalent to moles.
.IP " Surfolz --- Slz"
The unit of molzar extinction or absorption.
.IP " Volmolz --- Vlz"
The unit of molzar volume and refraction.
.IP " Molv --- Mlv"
The unit of molvity (molarity).
.IP " Molm --- Mlm"
The unit of molmity (molality).
.IP " Wergolz --- Wlz"
The unit of molzar enthalpy.
.IP " Eldulz --- Eul"
The unit of molzar conductivity.
.IP " Calgolz --- Clz"
The unit of molzar entropy.
.IP " Orolz --- Olz"
The unit of molzar optical rotation.
.IP " DubZond --- DZd"
The unit of loudness; a subjective unit.  Equivalent to SI
metric bels (usually measured in the tenths, or decibels).
.IP " Tumblol --- Tmb"
A unit of volume intended for convenient use; the "TGM
pint".  Equal to 3 2_Vm.
.IP " Quartol --- Qrt"
A unit of volume intended for convenient use; the "TGM
quart".  Equal to 6 2_Vm, or two Tmb.
.IP " Galvol --- Glv"
A unit of volume intended for convenient use; the "TGM
quart".  Equal to 2 1_Vm, or 4 Qrt.
.IP " Avolz --- Avz"
The TGM version of Avogadro's mass; the volume of one Molz
of a perfect gas at ice point (0 decigrees) and one Atmoz
pressure.  Equal to roughly 1;0E41X 4^Vm.
.IP " Oum --- Oumz"
The TGM "ounce".  It's equal to 2 3_Mz.
.IP " Me --- Emelectron"
The charge of one Molz of electrons; equal to about 5;7
9^Ql, or about 25,850 (decimal) faraday.
.SH Metric Units
.IP "second --- s"
The metric unit of time.
.IP "meter --- m"
The metric unit of length.
.IP "angstrom --- ang"
The normal abbreviation for this is a Scandinavian letter 'A'
with a circle over it; for obvious reasons, tgmconv expects
it abbreviated with "ang".  Equal to X^-X.
.IP "fermi --- fm"
This is equal to the femtometer, an unimaginably tiny
length.  Actually, tgmconv knows of no such unit; but since
the abbreviation for "femtometer" and "fermi" are both "fm",
you can think of this as a fermi if you wish, and tgmconv
will still give you the correct answer.
.IP "hectare --- ha"
The metric unit of area, comparable to hectares.  (The
"official" unit of area is generally considered the square
meter, comparable to the square yard or square foot.)
.IP "gram --- g"
The metric unit of mass.  This was a bit of a tough
decision.  The SI standard specifies the 
.I kilogram
as the basic unit of mass; however, it comes ready-made with
a prefix meaning "ten to the third", and a gram is one
thousandth of a kilgram.  So tgmconv assumes that the gram
is the basic unit, rather than the kilogram, so that the
algorithms won't get messed up.  The abbreviation "kg" still
works fine, anyway.
.IP "metric ton --- t"
Spelled "tonne" by non-American English speakers, this is
equal to one thousand kilograms.  In other words, it's
really a megagram (Meg), and entering either "t" or "Meg" will
yield the same result.
.IP "atomic mass unit --- u"
.IP "Dalton --- Da"
These are equivalent; they both equal the approximate mass
of a proton (or a neutron).  In grams, about
1.660538782e-24.  (Yes, protons and neutrons are crazy
small.)
.IP "liter --- L"
The metric unit of volume.  Sort of.  This used to be the
metric unit of volume, but SI makes the cubic meter that
unit, which is something substantially larger.  The liter
is, at least conceptually, the volume of one square 
.I decimeter
; technically, it was defined as the volume of one kilogram
of pure water at four degrees celsius and 760 mm of mercury
pressure.  However, that definition yielded a liter equal to
about 1.000028 dm3.  Because for quite a long time that was
what a liter was, tgmconv converts liters according to this
old definition.  If you want cubic decimeters, ask for them:
dm3.
.IP "Newton --- N"
The metric unit of force.  The force required to
accelerate one kg at a rate of one m/s2.
.IP "Dyne --- dyn"
An old unit of force, the centimeter-gram-second; equal to
one ten-thousandth of a Newton.
.IP "gram-force --- gf"
Another metric unit of force; the force exerted on one gram
by an acceleration of one metric standard gravity (about
9.806 m/s2).  Usually expressed in kgf.  The kgf, then, is
equal to 9.806 N.
.IP "Pascal --- Pa"
The metric unit of pressure and stress.
.IP "Metric Standard Atmosphere --- atm"
The metric standard atmosphere.
.IP "bar --- bar"
A metric unit of pressure; typically cited in millibars
(mbar).
.IP "mHg --- meters of mercury"
A metric unit of pressure; similar to inches of mercury.
Usually cited in millimeters of mercury (mmHg), which is not 
quite equal to the Torr, but pretty close.
.IP "Torr --- Torr"
Another metric unit of pressure, equal to 1/760 of a
standard atmosphere.  Named for Evangelista Torricelli, who
discovered the principle of the barometer.
.IP "Ampere-turn --- At"
The metric unit of magnetomotive force.
.IP "Joule --- J"
The metric unit of energy or work.
.IP "Calorie --- cal"
Another unit of energy or work.  There were many types of
calorie; tgmconv only knows one, the 15 degree calorie.
.IP "erg --- erg"
An older metric unit of energy or work; it's equal to
10.0e-7 Joules.
.IP "electron volt --- eV"
Another unit of energy or work, quite common in physics.
It's got a complex technical definition; the bottom line is
that it's very tiny, equal to 1.60217653e-19 Joules.
.IP "Watt --- W"
The metric unit of power.
.IP "Watt-hour --- Wh"
Another metric unit of energy or work.  Equals 3.6
megajoules.  Usually listed in kilowatt-hours, kWh.
.IP "Hertz --- Hz"
The metric unit of frequency.
.IP "Ampere --- A"
The metric unit of electrical current.
.IP "Volt --- V"
The metric unit of electromotive force, or "voltage".
.IP "Ohm --- ohm"
The metric unit of resistance.
.IP "Mho --- mho"
.IP "Siemens --- S"
The metric units of conductance, the reciprocal of
resistance in ohms.  "Mho" is the old term, "Siemens" is the
new term; tgmconv accepts both.
.IP "Coulomb --- C"
The metric unit of electric charge.
.IP "Faraday --- faraday"
"Faraday's constant," the amount of electrical charge in one
mole of electrons.  It's equal to about 96485.339924 C.
.IP "Farad --- F"
The metric unit of capacitance.
.IP "Weber --- Wb"
The metric unit of magnetic flux.
.IP "Tesla --- T"
The metric unit of magnetic flux density and magnetic
induction.
.IP "Henry --- H"
The metric unit of inductance.
.IP "Becquerel --- Bq"
The metric unit of radioactivity.
.IP "Curie --- Ci"
Another metric unit of radioactivity.  Equals the number of
decays per second in a gram of radium-226 (decimal), or
3.7e10 (decimal) decays per second.
.IP "lumen --- lm"
The metric unit of luminous flux.
.IP "candela --- cd"
The metric unit of luminous intensity.
.IP "Kelvin --- K"
The metric unit of heat, based on absolute zero.  Convert to
Calg.
.IP "Degrees Celsius --- degC"
Another unit of heat; based on the freezing point of water.
Convert to decigrees.
.IP "mole --- mol"
The metric unit of amount of substance.
.IP "bel --- B"
The metric unit of loudness, a subjective measure.  Usually
used in tenths, the decibel (dB).  Note that while decibels
are used in many fields, this is only the loudness decibel.
.SH Customary/Imperial Units
This section includes not only customary and imperial units,
but also others that don't fit into either above category,
like "days".  Where they differ, the imperial versions are
suffixed with an "i", the customary with a "c".  Imperial
versions are used in England and former colonies who gained
independence after the imperial reform (broadly, everyone
but America); customary versions are used in the United
States.
.IP "foot --- ft"
The customary/imperial unit of length.
.IP "inch --- in"
One zenth of a foot; a measurement of length.
.IP "mil --- mil"
A traditional tiny unit, equal to one thousandth of an inch.
.IP "yard --- yd"
Another traditional length measurement; it is equal to three
feet, a bit shorter than a meter.
.IP "fathom --- fath"
A traditional length measure, generally limited to water
depths; as in, "she sank in twenty fathoms".  Equal to six
feet; not surprisingly, a half-dozen.
.IP "rod --- rod"
A traditional unit of measure, rarely used these days, equal
to five and a half yards.
.IP "furlong --- furl"
A traditional unit of land measure; equal to six hundred and
sixty feet.  Originally, acres were one furlong long and one
chain wide; nowadays, they can be any shape.
.IP "mile --- mi"
A traditional unit of length, used in mostly the same
circumstances that the kilometer is used in metric.  Equal
to 5,280 feet.
.IP "nautical mile --- nmi"
One minute of arc of latitude along any meridian; made equal
to exactly one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two meters
by international agreement.
.IP "knot --- kn"
A primarily maritime unit, it equals one nautical mile per
hour.  Commonly used even by metric-using seafaring
countries, probably because it has a definite relation to
the meridian.  Common abbreviations are also "kt" and "kts",
but tgmconv will only accept "kn".  This is the abbreviation
specified by the International Hydrographic Organization,
whichi ncludes all major seafaring nations.  (Or so
Wikipedia told me, anyway.)
.IP "astronomical unit --- au"
The approximate mean distance of the earth to the sun;
really large.
.IP "light year --- ly"
The distance light travels in one year of time.
.IP "parsec --- pc"
A fancy unit having to do with parallax; enormously huge,
about 3.26 light years.
.IP "acre --- acre"
A traditional unit of area measure.  Originally equal to one
furlong by one chain; now can equal 4,840.0 square yards of
any shape.
.IP "pound --- lb"
The customary/imperial unit of weight and mass.  This refers
to the avoirdupois pound; troy pounds are dealt with later,
and defined (internally) in terms of avoirdupois pounds.
.IP "slug --- slug"
Another customary/imperial unit of mass.  It equals one
pound-force square seconds per foot.  One could also simply
request "1:lbf*s2/ft" and get the same answer.
.IP "stone --- st"
Still commonly used in Britain, never used in America; the
stone equals fourteen pounds.  (Avoirdupois pounds, that
is.)
.IP "ounce --- oz"
Another unit of weight and mass; equal to one-sixteenth of a
pound.  There were several different types of ounce,
including the troy (one zenth of a troy pound), avoirdupois,
and fluid.  The fluid ounce is for volume (see below); the
avoirdupois ounce is the only weight and mass ounce that
tgmconv knows.  It is typically referred to simply as
"ounce"; if one needs to distinguish, use "fluid ounce" for
the volume measure and simply "ounce" for the weight.
.IP "troy ounce --- ozt"
Commonly used only for precious metals, gems, and the like.
Twelve troy ounces make a troy pound.
.IP "troy pound --- lbt"
Never used anymore; put in here because it's so easy once
the troy ounce has been added.
.IP "imperial ton --- toni"
Another unit of weight and mass, equal to 2,240 lbs.  An
interesting number, to be sure, because it was based on the
English (or "long") hundredweight rather than on the pound.
.IP "customary ton --- tonc"
An odd name, considering that the imperial ton is actually
the customary one in this case.  The American ton is based
on the American, or "short", hundredweight, and thus equals
2,000 pounds.
.IP "hundredweight --- cw"
The English, or "long", hundredweight, equal to 112.0
pounds.  tgmconv doesn't know the American or "short"
hundredweight of 100.0 pounds, because it's too easy to
figure it out without tgmconv's help.
.IP "imperial gallon --- gali"
The imperial unit of volume.
.IP "imperial quart --- qti"
One-fourth of an imperial gallon; twice an imperial pint.
.IP "imperial pint --- pti"
A bit too large to be convenient for beer, the imperial pint
is equal to twenty fluid ounces.  An imperial pint of water
is one pound and a quarter mass. ("A pintful of water's a
pound and a quarter", which apparently almost rhymes in
British English.)  It differs from the customary pint since
the imperial reforms of 1824, in which one of many different
varieties of gallon was chosen as the standard gallon.  The
imperial pint is one-eighth of an imperial gallon.  It
contains twenty fluid ounces.
.IP "imperial cup --- cpi"
An imperial cup.
.IP "imperial tablespoon --- tbsi"
An imperial tablespoon.
.IP "imperial teaspoon --- tspi"
An imperial teaspoon.
.IP "customary gallon --- galc"
The customary unit of volume.
.IP "customary quart --- qtc"
One-fourth of a customary gallon; twice a customary pint.
.IP "customary pint --- ptc"
The perfect size for a beer (no, I'm not biased; this is an
obvious objective fact with which no reasonable man could
possibly disagree), this is one-eighth of the customary
gallon.  It masses one pound.  "A pint's a pound the world
around"---except, of course, that it isn't, at least since
1824.  It contains sixteen fluid ounces.
.IP "customary cup --- cpc"
The customary cup.
.IP "customary tablespoon --- tbsc"
The customary tablespoon.
.IP "customary teaspoon --- tspc"
The customary teaspoon.
.IP "imperial fluid ounce --- flozi"
You know the drill.  One one hundred and sixtieth of an
imperial gallon.
.IP "customary fluid ounce --- flozc"
One one hundred and twenty-eighty of a customary gallon.
.IP "pounds-force --- lbf"
The imperial/customary unit of force.
.IP "inches of mercury --- inHg"
The imperial/customary unit of pressure.
.IP "British Thermal Unit --- btu"
The imperial/customary unit of energy.
.IP "horsepower --- hp"
The imperial/customary unit of power.
.IP "Revolutions Per Minute --- RPM"
A traditional unit of frequency.
.IP "degrees --- deg"
Degrees of angle; three hundred and sixty of them equals a
circle, or 2*pi radians.
.IP "hour --- hr"
1,0000 Tims; 3,600 seconds.
.IP "day --- day"
20,0000 Tims; 86,400 seconds.
.IP "week --- wk"
Seven days; a familiar unit from around the world.
.IP "minute --- min"
About 249;7249 Tims; 60.0 seconds.
.IP "year --- yr"
265;0 days; 365.0 days.
.IP "leap year --- yrlp"
266;0 days; 366.0 days.
.SH BUGS
None known at this time.
.SH WORK NEEDED
The output unit should be deducible rationally from the
input unit.  That is, if the user is inputting Tims, it
should be clear that he wants output in seconds unless he
states otherwise.  At the present time, tgmconv can only
guess the output unit if the output unit is in TGM; this
ought to be remedied.
.SH AUTHOR
Donald P. Goodman III <dgoodmaniii at gmail dot com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dec (1),
.BR dozdc (1),
.BR tgmconv (1),
.BR dozdate (1),
.BR dozcal (1),
.BR dozword (1),
.BR dozpret (1)
